[ Claire ]
Honey, do you need me
to move the car?
Oh, it’s not in the way.
Okay.
Oh, no.
Iron cross.
She’s going down.
Oh, God. Phil.
You okay?
Yes, I am.
I am okay.
Honey, why do we keep this car?
It’s a classic.
No, it just sits here.
And the seat belts don’t work,
the doors stick,
it leaks fluids.
We haven’t put fluids in it
in 10 years.
Well, I’m gonna fix
all that. You wait.
And then, uh,
it’s gonna be Haley’s car.
Oh, we’re not giving
this car to Haley.
- It’s way too easy to fit
a mattress in the back.
- Remember?
- Oh, no.
We’re selling it.
- What?
Mm-hmm. Unless
you don’t think you can.
- Really?
- Yeah.
- Seriously?
- You can’t.
You honestly think
that’s gonna work?
You can’t sell it.
You know what?
You can insult a lot
of things about me:
my hair, my voice,
my balance board exercises.
But don’t insult my selling.
That crosses a line.
What line?
Oh, you don’t see it?
That’s ’cause I just sold it.
♪ Hey, hey ♪
♪ Hey ♪♪
"While the spray-tanned starlet
claims to be six weeks sober,
sources Down Under say
she has been barhopping
like a coked-up kangaroo."
Ah, what’s Daddy
reading to you?
If I have to read
The Very Hungry Caterpillar
one more time, I will snap.
Oh, it’s not that bad–
I will snap!
So, um, I laid the toolbox
outside and all the supplies
are ready.
And I think we are good to go.
Terrific.
Aren’t you gonna change
into a workingman’s outfit?
No, I’m good,
and I don’t think workmen
really call ’em "outfits."
We are building
a princess castle for Lily.
It’s something every father
wants to be able to do
for his daughter.
You know, and I–
And I fancy myself as
a bit of a castle designer.
I have done a few sketches.
Which we have archived.
So we can use the kit.
Mmm, yeah. Uh–
The kit.
Which we’re gonna do together.
I am petrified to do this
with Mitchell.
He built a couple of theater
sets in college or something,
and now he thinks he knows
everything about building.
Well, he doesn’t.
Every home improvement project
that we’ve undertaken has been
a near-death experience.
Make the appetizers
and then we’ll be–
If an accident does happen,
I hope he kills me,
because I don’t think
I would be a very inspiring
disabled person.
Manny, relax.
She’s not here yet.
You might wanna play it
a little cooler.
You don’t want to scare off
your girlfriend.
She’s not my girlfriend!
She’s just coming over to study
the life cycle of silkworms.
[ Doorbell Rings ]
Oh, she’s here.
She’s here!
Okay, how’s my hair?
- I thought it
was just a friend.
- I heard that.
I wasn’t whispering.
Manny, open the
door. Make her
feel welcome.
[ Door Opens ]
Kelly, good morning.
I’m glad you’re here.
- Um, this is my mom–
- Nice to meet you.
In my culture, mothers are
very clingy to their sons.
In fact, the leading cause
of death among Colombian woman
is when their sons get married.
But I’m not like that.
I just want my Manny
to be happy.
Manny, why don’t you give
your friend Kelly an empanada?
Oh, no, thank you. I try
to stay away from trans fats.
I’m sure one
won’t make a difference.
They’re Manny’s favorite.
I think I’m going to stop
eating trans fats too.
Hey, Mom,
when was this from?
Oh, that’s the year your dad
and I went to the Rose Bowl.
- [ Phil ]
Incredible game.
- Yeah.
Mom, you look
really pretty.
Thank you, sweetheart.
So what happened?
Well, Lukey,
everyone gets older.
Just ’cause parts of your mom
aren’t what they used to be,
it doesn’t mean–
I mean, what happened
in the game?
We got our butts kicked
by Penn State.
The parade was awesome though.
Angela Lansbury
was the grand marshal.
Good time, she wrote.
Okay. Guys,
let’s get back to it.
No one’s gonna buy this heap
looking this way.
Ew. Mom, which one
is the garbage can?
Um, it–
Honey, you can’t
throw that away.
It’s Blankety.
It’s disgusting.
No, sweetie.
You loved Blankety.
You wouldn’t go anywhere
without him.
[ Inhales ]
Yeah, until Luke
threw up on it.
[ Chuckles ]
Yeah. I used to throw up
all the time.
Remember Buckety?
[ Claire ]
Oh!
Oh, look at this.
What is that?
[ Clicks Tongue, Exhales ]
We went to the beach
one day,
and Luke had
such a good time...
that he wanted to bring home
a jar of sunshine
so he could always remember.
Do you remember, sweetie?
Oh, no, no, don’t–
don’t open it.
You really think you
trapped sunshine in there?
I’m just letting you know now,
I’m not taking care of him
when you guys die.
Stop. It’s sweet.
[ Cell Phone Ringing ]
It still feels hot.
Mmm.
Hey, it’s that guy
who came by earlier
who was really interested.
What was his name?
Shoot.
Well, you can’t be in sales
and not remember people’s names.
That’s why I like to use what
they call "menimonic" devices,
or little tricks
to help you remember.
Um, like the other day,
I met this guy named Carl.
Now I might forget that name,
but he was wearing
a Grateful Dead T-shirt.
What’s a band like
the Grateful Dead? Phish.
Where do fish live?
The ocean.
What else lives in the ocean?
Coral. Hello, Carl.
[ Whispering ]
I think it’s "mnemonic."
I– I think I’d remember.
Okay.
You can do it, Dad.
[ Ringing Continues ]
Okay. He looked like
the drummer from Foreigner.
A foreigner’s from France.
France rhymes with ants.
Ants ruin a picnic.
[ Beeps ]
What’s up, Nick?
Really? Really?
Well, that’s great.
Yeah, no, swing by anytime.
We’re here all day.
Thanks.
[ Beeps ]
Guess what? You said
I couldn’t sell this?
Well, you’re gonna be
eating humble pie
stuffed with crow...
and a big side of sorry,
’cause I just did.
In your face,
girl with the negative tattoo.
Honey, wait.
[ Claire ]
No.
Whoa. Someone
doesn’t like to lose.
Honey. Honey.
I’m sorry. I’m sorry.
When I woke up this morning,
I hated that car.
And even thinking about it
made me mad.
But then when we
were going through it–
Blankety, all that stuff–
I just–
The thought of that whole part
of our life driving away–
We can keep Blankety.
No. Look at them.
Come on, a minute ago,
they were babies.
And now they’re driving,
and soon we’ll all be dead.
Whoa. You’re leaving out
a few great minutes there.
Retirement, old age,
cool chair that
goes up the stairs.
Yeah. I’m sorry.
I’m being ridiculous.
[ Sniffles ]
Don’t apologize.
I love you
when you’re human.
Listen. Hey, listen.
We don’t have
to sell the car.
Oh, sweetie, of course we do.
It doesn’t make any sense
to keep it.
Well, what can I do
to make you feel better?
Nothing.
Unless you can build me
a time machine.
[ Chuckles ]
Honey, until someone can figure
out how to keep a wormhole
from collapsing in on itself,
that’s just a pipe dream.
[ Chuckles ]
Phil.
Come on back, Phil.
Well, I found the–
[ Nail Fires ]
I found the nail gun.
Oh, yay.
Weirdest thing. It was
wrapped in an old towel,
stuffed in a box
on the top shelf of the closet.
- Well, just set it down
on the counter.
- [ Door Opens, Closes ]
Heads up!
Oh, Dad,
what are you doing here?
I’m, uh, just, uh,
returning that Crock-Pot
that Gloria borrowed.
Oh, yeah, I forgot
you had that Crock-Pot, Jay.
Well, we’re just
getting ready to build Lily
a princess castle if you–
- Wanna help? Yeah, sure.
- Oh, well, if it’s okay
with you, Mitchell.
Oh, yeah. Oh, no, Dad.
Oh, remember how much fun
we had when we built
that bookshelf together?
That was my Vietnam.
And I was in Vietnam.
Oh! Look at us.
Three construction dudes.
[ Chuckles ]
Dad, I’m gonna get you
some workman gloves.
I have, uh, blue and camel.
What’s your preference?
Surprise me.
Wouldn’t it be easier
if we had all of our stuff
in the same notebook?
You think?
I mean, we’re always
going back and forth.
I’ll just put my things
in your notebook.
Who wants chocolate milk?
Sure, Mom.
So how is it going?
[ Manny ]
Great!
Kelly’s moving her stuff
into my notebook.
This is sudden.
It just felt right.
Oh, you know
what you should do?
Put a pinch of salt
in the chocolate milk.
It really brings out the flavor.
- Salt is for the popcorn.
- That sounds good.
You wouldn’t like it.
Maybe we should
let Manny decide.
Okay. Here’s the salt.
We’ll see what he likes.
Wow! That’s really good.
Try it, Mom.
I don’t care for it.
It was delicious.
I finally got Lily
down for a nap.
Where is Mitchell?
He’s not supposed to be
unsupervised.
Don’t worry.
I got him in the garage,
putting flags on the spires.
Okay, perfect.
It works better that way.
Nobody gets hurt, we don’t have
to put flags on the spires.
[ Chuckles ]
Yeah.
All right, let’s get
this roof on. It’s supposed
to snap right into place.
[ Whirring ]
Hey, whatcha got going on
over there, Jigsaw?
I thought that I would get
started on the drawbridge while
you guys worked on the roof–
- You all done with the flags?
- Yeah. It took me
like 15 minutes.
It was a lot easier
than you made it out to be.
- [ Cameron ]
Do something, Jay.
- Uh, Mitch!
Yeah.
- [ Whirring Stops ]
- How about you make us
some sandwiches?
No, we’re
in the middle of this.
I think Jay’s saying
why don’t you
go sort some bolts?
- No, I sorted the bolts.
- All of them?
There were six.
What-What’s going on
with you two?
Are you– Are you
trying to get rid of me?
Uh, Mitch–
Shh!
Oh, my God, you are.
You’re, like, in cahoots.
Mitchell, I get scared.
When you’re around tools,
honey, it’s dangerous.
For me, for you,
for our roses.
[ Jay ]
Works better
this way, kid.
I mean, castle goes right up,
nobody gets sliced in half.
Do you know how insulting
this is? I was–
[ Whirring ]
[ Whirring Stops ]
I was an intern at
the Songbird Summer Playhouse.
Do you think that
the town of Brigadoon
just magically appeared?
Well, in the play, it did.
But the set–
the set was built
with these two hands.
[ Scoffs ]
[ Cameron ] Mitchell. Mitchell–
The von Trapp mansion.
Evita’s balcony. Okay. Okay.
Oh, where are you going?
I’m going on a walk.
Oh, yeah, I can still
do that by myself. Watch.
Oh, I hope I don’t get hurt.
Oh, God.
Who put that doorjamb there?
I didn’t see it.
I ran right into it.
Oh, no, I tripped.
Walking is so hard.
- That one didn’t look
like it was on purpose.
- It was!
Just a few more steps.
Oh, sorry. Step. Step.
Phil!
Sorry. Sorry.
It’s gonna be worth it.
[ Alex ]
No, it’s not.
Don’t listen to her.
And–
Ow, ow, ow!
All right, don’t struggle.
Oh!
Stop struggling.
Ta-da!
- [ Claire ]
Great, it’s our car.
- Not a car. Kids.
[ Claire ]
Time– What?
Tonight, Claire Dunphy,
we are turning back the clock...
to a simpler time
when families piled into
their station wagons,
picked up some burgers
and went on a picnic
up to Granger Point.
Honey, we don’t have to do this.
Listen to her.
No. It’s gonna be great.
I talked to, uh–
France, ants, picnic–
Nick,
and he’s not picking up
the car till tomorrow.
We have one more night
of family fun.
What’s gonna be
fun about it?
Listen to him.
Only everything.
Only nothing.
Okay, kids, you know what?
Your father is trying to
do something nice.
So I would appreciate
if you would stop your whining
and just get in the car.
Still does it!
Oh, my! Come on,
get in, get in.
[ Laughs ]
I’m just sayin’ the kid’s
gotta learn to let things go.
Well, this is a touchy
subject for Mitchell.
He wants to feel
like a regular Joe,
like you and I.
Oh, pardonnez-moi!
I prefer the champagne Dijon
to the standard yellow.
You know, there are a few
areas that define us as men,
like sports
and construction.
Mitchell just wants to
feel like he’s part
of the man club.
Isn’t that where you guys met?
I know you’re making a joke
because you’re uncomfortable,
so I’ll let it slide.
And we met at an orgy.
Ohh!
[ Scoffs ]
Come on.
I just think it’s crazy,
that’s all.
So what if he can’t
swing a hammer?
Look at all he has done:
law school, great career,
providing for his family.
That’s manly too, isn’t it?
I mean, the classical sense.
Well, yes.
I mean, I think it also takes a
big man to quit his career as a
music teacher and raise a child.
You’re a man too, Cam.
Thank you, Jay.
Wait! Garnish.
We’re men, not cavemen.
My great-great-grandfather
helped build
the Brooklyn Bridge.
I heard that
until the day he died,
every time he passed it,
he was filled with such pride.
He’d say,
"There’s a little bit
of me in that bridge."
I know that
I’m not the handiest guy,
but I’m still a man.
And I want to
be able to look out
into my yard and say,
"There’s a little bit of me
in that princess castle."
Oh, no!
No, no, no, no, no.
Oh– Oh, no.
Hey, Mom, Kelly’s parents
are on their way.
She invited me
to go out to dinner
and a movie with them.
Is that okay?
Oh, but I thought that
you and I were going to
the movies tonight.
You know, to see that one
with Shia LaBeouf.
Well, maybe we can go
to the movie another night.
[ Sighs ]
- Wh-What’s wrong?
- No, nothing. Just my heart.
Okay, sue me.
I am a Colombian mother.
I’m not gonna let him make
a mistake that is gonna affect
him for the rest of my life.
His life.
Manny, I think we should
talk about this Kelly girl.
Isn’t she great?
I think she really likes me.
Why wouldn’t she like you, baby?
Of course. Go. Have fun.
I’m gonna wear
my burgundy dinner jacket.
Of course you are.
But I say we apologize and just
finish the castle together
like he wanted.
Did you hide the nail gun?
Absolutely.
’Cause, I mean,
you said that before.
No, I–
Oh, my gosh.
It’s finished.
What the hell?
Mitchell did that?
Yes. Yes. Mitchell did it.
Who’s the bitch now, bitches?
- Honey, it looks beautiful.
- Well, yeah,
because
when you two were inside
enjoying a little tea party,
I was out here–
out here getting stuff done.
I’m sorry.
We shouldn’t have
underestimated you.
You know he’s stuck
in there, right?
Oh, yeah.
Uh, hey, kid, Cam and I are
gonna crack a couple cold ones.
You wanna join us?
No, no, you know what?
I’m just gonna stay here
and get some stuff done.
But you two ladies
enjoy your light beers.
How you know
we’re having light beers?
We only have light beers.
So, well, listen.
Here is a hammer–
I don’t need it.
and this is a screwdriver,
and you just come on in
whenever you want to.
I’m not gonna use it.
I’ll be in– Yeah.
You sure we shouldn’t
get him out of there?
No, he would never forgive us.
He’s a very proud man, your son.
[ Chirps ]
[ Mitchell ]
Bird! Bird! Bird!
[ Wings Flapping ]
Oh, my God!
Yeah, I’m pretty proud
myself right now.
[ Mitchell Screaming ]
[ Screaming Continues ]
Oh, my God!
[ Jay ] Calm down.
Luke, honey, slow down.
No one’s gonna take
your food away.
Wow, this place
has really changed.
Time marches on, huh?
See that Starbucks down there?
You know what that used to be?
An orange grove?
No, a Burger King.
You can still see
some of the architecture.
Thank you for this.
I really do feel better already.
You can go home again,
Claire.
Oh, sweetie.
My stomach hurts.
Luke, honey, I told you
not to eat so fast.
Just sit back, relax,
you’re gonna be fine.
Ew! A spider!
[ Choking ]
Haley!
Haley, honey,
you’re standing on the back
of Daddy’s seat belt.
Oh, soft cheeses,
I can breathe again.
Wait, where’d the spider go?
I really need some air.
Okay, Alex,
lower your window.
I can’t. It’s stuck.
I forgot about that.
Don’t you throw up
on me.
Don’t point him at me!
Here, I’ll turn on the–
Haley! Oh!
[ Coughs ]
Oh! Oh, honey,
I think that’s the heat.
Dust in my mouth.
It’s happening!
Okay, grab a bag.
[ Alex Screams ]
[ Coughing ]
Oh, God!
This smells like onions.
My seat belt’s stuck!
I’ll help you.
Oh, my God!
Spider!
Sorry.
Haley!
Oh, God!
He’s gonna blow, Mom!
I need Buckety!
Okay, everybody
get out of the car!
Our doors don’t open!
We got ya.
Slow is smooth
and smooth is fast.
Get out. Get out.
Slow is smooth and smooth
is fast, Dunphys.
Nice and easy.
[ Horn Honks ]
Ow!
Slow is smooth
and smooth is fast.
[ Claire ]
Don’t look at him!
He’s just gonna
make you feel sick.
[ Vomits ]
[ Haley ]
Oh, I looked! I looked!
Oh, God.
Guys, the car!
Oh!
I got it!
No! Oh, no!
Oh, no!
What’s the plan, Phil?
At least I’m trying
to do something.
Dad, get off!
[ Claire ]
Come on, Phil, let it go!
Let it go! Honey, let it go!
Honey, stop.
- Oh, no! That’s not–
- [ Crash ]
It’s all right.
I’m just–
I’m just being realistic,
but we’re gonna need to
lower the asking price.
[ Door Opens ]
Hi, papi.
You’re here so soon.
- Yeah. I decided to
skip the movie.
- Are you okay?
Yeah. Kelly didn’t
like my jacket.
Plus, she ordered for me.
Mmm. Did she let you hear
the specials at least?
No. I don’t wanna be with
someone who doesn’t get me.
Do we have any trans fats left?
Of course.
[ Chuckles ]
Besides, I think there’s a girl
I’d rather spend time with.
Oh, that’s so sweet.
I’m the luckiest mother
in the world.
- Hey, this is Manny.
Is Alicia there?
- Who’s Alicia?
She’s a girl
in my history class.
We like to play Six Degrees
of Sir Francis Bacon.
You just tossed a woman aside,
then immediately you
go to the next one?
No, I just–
"I j-j-j-just," what?
This is not
the way you treat woman!
Men are all the same!
They break woman’s hearts
and they don’t care!
[ Door Opens ]
Men are all animals!
[ Door Closes ]
Hey, honey.
Animal!
The art of the sale
is all about
what you leave out.
"’83 classic wagon"–
Tough to find parts.
"They don’t make ’em
like this anymore"–
For legal reasons.
"Enjoyed for many years
by one happy family"–
[ Boop ]
Of raccoons.
[ Chuckles ]
I’m kidding. Actually–
Actually, it did make us
happy for a long time.
It’s gonna be tough
to say good-bye.
It always is.
Nobody loves change.
But...
part of life is learning
to let things go.
[ Chuckles ]
I totally thought
I was gonna puke on you.
[ Haley ]
I would have killed you
if you did.
Like you killed that spider?
Oh, you didn’t see it.
It was huge.
[ Laughs ]
Remember the look
on Mom’s face when
her seat fell down?
How about when Dad jumped
on the hood of the car?
[ Laughs ]
[ Together ]
"What’s the plan, Phil?"
[ Laughing ]
Mitch?
Lily?
[ Mitchell ]
Hey, we’re in here.
Oh.
Princess is in her castle.
Hi.
How long have you guys
been out here?
Oh, Cam,
she can’t get enough.
We’ve been in here
for like two hours.
Oh, wow.
Yeah.
- And we did this for her.
- Mmm.
- Need me to get you
out of there?
- This thing is not safe, Cam.
Move to the back of the castle.
Yeah. No.
I know the drill.
Don’t carry me out this time.
I think it sends the wrong
message to Lily.
Well, the neighbors
enjoy it.